# Wiki-Search-Engine

This project involves building a search engine on the Wikipedia Data Dump without using any external index. For this project we used the data dump of size 62 GB. The search results returns in approx. 7 seconds. Multi word and multi field search on Wikipedia Corpus is implemented. SAX Parser is used to parse the XML Corpus. After parsing the following morphological operations are implemented:

Features included:

    XML Parsing - Used default SAX parser from Java SE.
    Tokenization - Tokens generated by splitting on space.
    Case folding - All tokens changed to lower case.
    Stop words removal - Stop words are removed by referring a stop word list
    Stemming - Porter stemmer (http://tartarus.org/martin/PorterStemmer/java.txt)
    Posting List / Inverted Index creation
    Fetch documents by query (Tfidf rank)

Term Field Abbreviations: I - Infobox B - Body T - Title E - External Link R - References C - Category

The index, consisting of stemmed words and posting list is build for the corpus after performing the above operations along with the title mapping for each document.Since the size of the corpus will not fit into the main memory several index files are generated. Next, these index files are merged using K-Way Merge along with creating field based indices files.

For example, file1,file2,file3 are generated. These files may contain the same word. Hence, K Way Merge is applied and field based files are generated along with their respective offsets. These field based files are generated using multi-threading. This helps in doing multiple I/O simultaneously. Along with this the vocabulary file is also generated.

Along with these I have also stored the offsets of each of the field files. This reduces the search time to O(logm * logn) where m is the number of words in the vocabulary file and m is the number of words in the largest field file.
